---
title: 'AE-SOLAR TOPCON TECHNOLOGY METEOR SERIES'
status: 'published'
author:
  name: 'Yan Prysovetskyi'
  picture: 'https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/114078546?v=4'
slug: '11'
description: ''
coverImage: ''
publishedAt: '2024-02-07T14:50:44.660Z'
---

[**The Meteor Double Glass TopCon PV Module**](https://ae-solar.com/products/ae-cmd-120bds-460w-480w/) comes in three different series with half cut monocrystalline solar cells with 108/144 cells in a single module. The series features N-Type TOPCON technology and the module features a nominal power ranging from 410 W – 575 W and a power conversion efficiency ranging from 20.09% to 22.18%. The open-circuit voltage ranges from 37. 45 V to 50.68 V and the short-circuit current ranging from 13.88 A to 14.33 A. The product weighs 26/29/33Kg depending on the series. It has a temperature coefficient of -0.25% per C, an operating temperature ranging from -40 C to 85 C, and an IP 68 enclosure.

 

### **Advantages of the TopCon “METEOR Solar PV Panels”**

 

1. **HALF CUT CELLS**

Half-cut solar cells are a type of solar cell design that has gained popularity in recent years due to its potential to increase the efficiency of solar panels. In this design, a standard solar cell is cut in half, with each half connected in series to create a “half-cut cell.” This design offers several advantages over traditional solar cell designs.  One of the main advantages of half-cut solar cells is their improved efficiency. By cutting a solar cell in half and connecting the two halves in series, the electrical current is split between the two halves. This reduces the amount of current flowing through each half, which in turn reduces the amount of energy lost to heat. As a result, half-cut solar cells can achieve higher energy conversion efficiency than traditional solar cells.  Another advantage of half-cut solar cells is their improved durability. Because the electrical current is split between the two halves of the cell, each half is subjected to less stress and strain than a traditional solar cell. This can help to reduce the risk of cell cracking and other forms of damage, which can extend the lifespan of the solar panel.

 

1. **SOLAR CELL SIZE:**

The size of solar cells is an important factor in determining the overall performance and efficiency of a solar panel. Generally speaking, larger solar cells are more efficient than smaller ones because they are able to capture more sunlight and convert it into electricity. However, larger solar cells are also more expensive to produce, so there is a trade-off between efficiency and cost. The METEOR Solar panel series has a cell size of 182mm. By balancing the trade-off between efficiency and cost, and taking into account the physical size and weight of the panel, AE Solar has created a  high-performance, cost-effective solar panels that are well-suited for a variety of applications.

 

1. **TOPCON TECHNOLOGY:**

The panel comes with the state-of-the-art TOPCON Technology. Topcon technology refers to a type of solar cell manufacturing process that uses advanced surface passivation techniques to improve the efficiency and performance of solar panels. To know more about what is TOPCON technology, you can check out our previous article here  [**“TOPCON Technology”**](https://ae-solar.com/topcon-technology/)**.**

 

####  **4.    NO LID AND PID DEGRADATION:**

In the field of solar energy, two terms that are frequently discussed are LID (Light-Induced Degradation) and PID (Potential-Induced Degradation). Both LID and PID refer to the reduction in performance that can occur in solar panels over time, and are therefore important considerations when selecting solar panels for a particular application. LID is a phenomenon that occurs in some types of solar cells, where the initial exposure to sunlight can cause a temporary decrease in efficiency.  PID, on the other hand, is a more serious issue that can occur in solar panels under certain conditions. PID is caused by the build-up of a negative potential in the solar panel, which can occur when the panel is exposed to a high-voltage electrical source, such as a lightning strike or a nearby power line. This negative potential can cause the solar cells to degrade over time, leading to a permanent decrease in efficiency. Overall, LID and PID resistance are important factors to consider when selecting solar panels for a particular application. In order to combat the effects of LID and PID, solar panel manufacturers have developed a variety of techniques to improve the resistance of their panels. For example, some panels are designed with special coatings or encapsulants that help to protect the cells from environmental damage. Other panels may use specialized cell designs or materials that are less susceptible to LID or PID.

AE Solar’s METEOR SERIES are resistant to these types of degradation, and this helps to ensure the customers that their solar panels will continue to perform effectively over the long term, and provide a reliable source of renewable energy for years to come. Apart from all the above-mentioned advantages, the panels are also sand resistance, corrosion resistance and ammonia resistant. The product also comes with a 30-year performance warranty and 15 years product warranty. The technical specification of the METEOR product can be found in this link  [“AE solar METOR SERIES”](https://ae-solar.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/AE-CMD-108BDS-410W-430W.pdf)

 

Authors: Vidhyashankar Venkatachalaperumal, Afshin Bakhtiari